                  [1]GO CHECK OUT MY NEW PAGE!! HFS2G, BABY!!

[banner1]        [banner2]
The Site         Thursday, September 30 I think we can sum up the
 - [2]News       HFStival Fall Edition with one word: ROWDY. From the
 - [3]The Bands  violence and ticket-tearing that went down before
 - [4]Submit     the gates even opened, to the early mosh pits (in
News             one of which my friend got a nasty black eye), to
 - [5]Contact Me Limp Bizkit's hell-raising set, this HFStival was,
                 in my humble opinion, the craziest EVER. I actually
Links            fell down in the mosh pit during Bizkit's set. It
 - [6]HFS.com    was seriously the scariest thing that's ever
 - [7]Official   happened to me. No joke.
HFStival
   Page          It was great to have the festival back at RFK.
                 PSInet was nice, but taking the metro is sooo
Who was da best  convenient, or at least it was in the morning...
act at the Fall  Coming back was a different story entirely. There
Edition?         were some great acts. A few of my favorites were
[8][          ]  Fuel, Long Beach Dub Allstars, surprise guests Run
  [9][Submit]    DMC, Sev (Fairfax County. Aww yeah.), Jimmie's
                 Chicken Shack (who had a much better set than in the
    [hfs99]      spring), and of course Limp Bizkit. Words cannot
                 fully describe the spectacle that was Limp's set.
                 Fireballs! Foul language! Exposed breasts! And
                 100,000 flying plastic bottles! It was AMAZING. I
                 came home after their set and slept for FOURTEEN
                 hours.

                 Another year, another TWO great HFStivals. I'll see
                 yall in the spring! HFStival 2000, baby!

                 Friday, August 27 A friend of mind pointed me to a
                 bit o' HFStival news on the [10]SEV WEBSITE. It
                 seems that there will be not one, not two, but THREE
                 stages at the upcoming HFStival. There will be the
                 traditional inner stage, for the bigger acts, and
                 the outer stage, for the lesser-known ones, but this
                 festival will see the addition of a stage for local
                 acts. You can check out the [11]bands page for my
                 breakdown of the acts and their respective stages.
                 Just my guesses, but its the best I can do at this
                 point. And oh yeah, tickets tomorrow, 10:00am,
                 Ticketmaster, $25 each, cash only.

                 Wednesday, August 25 Outer stage! Outer stage! Party
                 time! Excellent! Just discovered the lineup for the
                 HFStival Outer Stage, the home of local music at the
                 festival. Here we go: Good Charlotte, Underfoot,
                 Laughing Colors, Mary Prankster, Colouring Lesson,
                 Modern Yesterday, Live Alien Broadcast, and the
                 Wakeing Hours. Sounds good to me. And in other news,
                 appearing at the Trancemissions Tent will be:
                 Thievrey Corporation, DieselBoy, DJ Touche of the
                 Wiseguys, John Tab, Feelgood, Lovegrove, Scott
                 Henry, and Lieven.

                 In other news, tickets for the 1999 HFStival: Fall
                 Edition go on sale this saturday at 10:00. Be there,
                 or... don't be at the HFStival.

                 Tuesday, August 24 I was just checking the official
                 HFStival page, and it seems that 6 more bands have
                 been quietly added to the line-up. These new bands
                 are HFStival veteran Sev, Staind, Jact, Bis,
                 Splittsville, and Uncle Ho (yeah, you read that
                 right). That brings our grand total to 16 bands,
                 with reportedly more on the way. Also, the
                 Trancemissions tent will be returning to this latest
                 HFStival, so all you dance fans can have something
                 to look forward to.

                 [12]And everybody wish my sister a happy birthday!

                 Thursday, August 19 I wuz listening to HFS last
                 night, and I heard about three more bands headed for
                 the fall festival... Fuel, Filter, and Bush! This
                 brings our grand total up to 10 bands, with more on
                 the way. Exciting stuff.

                 Wednesday, August 18 HFStival '99 -- FALL EDITION,
                 BABY! That's right, folks, for the first time ever,
                 the year of 99, the year of HFS, will host not one
                 but TWO HFStivals! This second HFStival will take
                 place on Saturday, September 25, at RFK STADIUM,
                 unlike the earlier HFStival. Tickets go on sale on
                 Saturday, August 28, at 10:00AM, and are available
                 through TicketMaster Outlets, TicketMaster
                 PhoneCharge, and, in an interesting twist, through
                 [13]TicketMaster Online.

                 And now on to what's really important, the bands.
                 HFStival Fall '99 will featured such acts as Limp
                 Bizkit, Jimmie's Chicken Shack, Everclear, the
                 Chemical Brothers, Buckcherry, 311, and the Long
                 Beach Dub Allstars (basically Sublime without Brad
                 Nowell). Sounds awesome, although this list seems
                 short to me, and there is always a possibility that
                 other bands will be announced later.

                 Expect a new look for this page, as well as more
                 information as it becomes available. Two HFStivals
                 in one year! Who woulda thought...

                 Sunday, May 30 80,000 people crammed together like
                 sardines on a scorchingly hot day, listening to
                 music that was far too loud and doing things that
                 are illegal in most states? Yeah, I'd say that
                 pretty much sums it up. This year's HFStival kicked
                 ass!

                 The Chili Peppers were good, playing some classic
                 songs as well as new material, but I think we all
                 know who owned this year's festival: The Offspring.
                 They had the whole stadium going crazy. I'd put
                 their performance right up there with Green Day as
                 one of the all-time HFStival best. I didn't get out
                 to the side stage very much, but I hear Sev was
                 really good. If you've got any HFStival memories,
                 please, [14]send em my way.

                 I think the most exciting thing all day was an
                 announcement on the Jumbotron screen over the
                 stage... a second HFStival! The message said
                 something like, "Only once a century does it happen
                 twice a year: May 29 and September 25." I was like,
                 oh my god! More info as I hear it.

                 Saturday, May 29 Hell yeah, folks. The festival is
                 here. I hear it's gonna be a scorching 91 degrees
                 today, and it'll feel more like 130 inside the
                 stadium. It's gonna be freakin' insane. 70,000 or
                 more people dancing, yelling, smoking, and having an
                 all around hell of a good time. It's BS that we
                 can't bring in water, but there should be enough to
                 go around. I hear about a booth they are going to
                 set up that sprays people with cool, soothing,
                 life-giving mist. That's where you'll find me :) If
                 you have any last minute questions, send them my
                 way, and I'll be back with my HFStival wrap-up after
                 I recover (36 hours of sleep, minimum). I hope you
                 all have a great time, and I'll be seein' ya'll at
                 the 1999 HFStival, baby!

                 Wednesday, May 19 Well, the HFStival is only 10
                 short days away! Aww man, it's gonna rock your
                 world.

                 If I had only one piece of advice to offer you,
                 fellow HFStivalgoer, sunscreen would be it. Put some
                 on before you leave. Put some on when you get to the
                 stadium. Put some on after every band you see. If
                 you think you have too much sunscreen on, put on
                 some more. I promise you'll still get a tan, and
                 this way you might not get burned too bad. Also,
                 bring enough money for drinks. Water is hard to
                 find, and a drink'll run about $3. I know it's
                 expensive, but you won't care after you've been
                 standing in the heat for five or six hours.

                 I'll be back with more helpful advice as we get
                 closer to the festival. Some of my ideas may not be
                 the greatest, but trust me on the sunscreen :P

                 Thursday, April 28 Tickets this saturday! They go on
                 sale this saturday at 9am through MOST TicketMaster
                 outlets and through TicketMaster PhoneCharge. There
                 are a few locations that won't be selling HFStival
                 tickets, and I'd advise you to check [15]here to see
                 if you're local ticket outlet is one of them.

                 My advice to all of you is to go to where ever it is
                 you plan to buy tickets on friday night and see
                 what's up. Talk to the ticket sellers and mall
                 security and see what their plan is, and try to get
                 your name on any list, official or unofficial, that
                 you can find. Remember: you can only buy tickets
                 with cash. Tickets are $25 plus a service charge of
                 less than $5 per ticket. Four tickets per person
                 limit. Good luck to everyone, and just try to be
                 civil about it.

                 Wednesday, April 21 Sorry for the lack of updates.
                 I've been feeling a little bit under the weather,
                 and I needed to get my beauty sleep. Anyway, we've
                 got the complete band list (aside from any surprise
                 bands) and all the ticket info. Tickets will go on
                 sale on Saturday, May 1 at 9am, available at
                 TicketMaster outlets, through TicketMaster
                 PhoneCharge, and at many other places, including RFK
                 Stadium (I'd call there first, though) and Mailboxes
                 Etc. Like last year, tickets will cost $25 with a
                 $4-5 service charge.

                 And now, what you've all been waiting for: the
                 bands! They've got some great acts lined up this
                 year. Headlining the festival will be the Red Hot
                 Chili Peppers. Other major bands include the
                 Offspring, Live, Sugar Ray, Goo Goo Dolls,
                 Silverchair, Blink 182, and the Mighty Mighty
                 Bosstones. The other main stage performers will be
                 Jimmie's Chicken Shack, Orgy, Lit, and Sev, for a
                 total of 12 bands.

                 On the outer stage, the more popular bands playing
                 are 2 Skinee J's, Citizen King, and Fountains of
                 Wayne. Also, we'll be hearing Buck Cherry, the
                 Freestylers, the Living End, Ozomatli, and Beth
                 Orton, the only female performer at this year's
                 HFStival.

                 Expect some surprise announcements from HFS, this
                 being the 10th HFStival and whatnot, and listen to
                 win tickets. They've already started giving them
                 away. Good luck, and I think this year's festival is
                 going to be a blast!

                 Sunday, April 18 Official HFStival announcements
                 coming on monday! We'll finally learn about the
                 bands and when we can finally get tickets. I'll
                 listen to as much as I can, but I'd appreciate it if
                 you'd tell me about any of the bands you hear.

                 Also, we have our first confirmed band: SEV. This
                 local act won the Big Break dealie and now they get
                 to open the main stage. Way to go guys.

                 Thursday, April 15 Just got an email announcing the
                 new offical HFStival page. Now, it's still under
                 construction, and some of the links don't work, but
                 it's a good sign of things to come. You can find it
                 [16]here. Keep the rumors coming folks!

                 Monday, April 12 Big update today. It turns out that
                 the rumors I heard earlier were from a Rolling Stone
                 article (which can be found [17]here). Now, I've
                 been told that the author of this article tried the
                 same stunt (leaking HFStival bands before the
                 official announcements) last year, and half of his
                 article turned out to be wrong, so don't have too
                 much faith in anything you hear from non-HFS
                 sources.

                 On a more positive note, I've heard some great
                 things about Raven Stadium (actually called "PSInet
                 Stadium"), where the 1999 HFStival will be held. One
                 reader described it as "nothing less than A FRIGGIN'
                 PALACE with a football field in the middle." I've
                 never been to the stadium, being a Redskins fan
                 myself (hold your laughter until the end of the
                 presentation). I hear it has great audio and video
                 systems, as well as 100,000 parking spaces, so
                 parking won't be a problem. Also, Raven Stadium is
                 larger, allowing HFS to sell approx. 10,000 more
                 tickets. There's a light rail system in Baltimore
                 that stops right outside the stadium that could be
                 used by festival-goers (is that a word?). Overall, I
                 feel that the choice to move the HFStival was
                 probably a good one and won't be a major
                 inconvenience for fans in Washington.

                 Still haven't heard much about ticket sales. One
                 source told me that tickets will go on sale this
                 saturday, april 17, but that seems a little too soon
                 to me, considering that they haven't announced
                 anything yet.

                 Sunday, April 11 Hey folks! Wasn't sure if I was
                 gonna do this again this year, but I got an email
                 with a whole bunch of HFStival info (thanks Dave),
                 and I felt like I had to post all this stuff. So
                 here I am, back again this year, bringing you all
                 the info as I hear it.

                 The 1999 HFStival will take place on May 29, 1999.
                 If you hadn't heard yet, the '99 HFStival will NOT
                 take place at RFK as it has in the past, but rather
                 at Raven Stadium in Baltimore. This raises some
                 questions in my mind, but I'll reserve judgement
                 until I hear more info. I guess I'm not taking metro
                 this year.

                 This year, I've got a TON of info about the bands,
                 unlike last year, when I didn't hear much until they
                 were officially announced. Here's what we've got so
                 far:

                 Keeping in mind that this is all just rumors at this
                 point, my source tells me that the Red Hot Chili
                 Peppers and the Offspring could play the festival,
                 as well as the Goo Goo Dolls, Sugar Ray, the Mighty
                 Mighty Bosstones, Lit ("My Own Worst Enemy"), Orgy,
                 Blink 182, and four others. The Chili Peppers and
                 Blink will preview material from their forthcoming
                 albums, called "Californication" and "Enema of the
                 State," respectively. And those are just the main
                 stage bands.

                 On the outer stage, slated artists include Fountains
                 of Wayne, Beth Orton and Zebrahead. Other
                 possibilities are Citizen King, Marvelous 3, Puya,
                 and Buckcherry. The winner of the HFS Big Break will
                 also get a spot. The three finalists are Sev, the
                 Martians, and Sampson. The finals will be on April
                 15th at Bohagers in Baltimore.

                 "In all, twenty bands are expected to play this
                 year's HFStival -- twelve on the main stage and
                 eight on the second stage." -Dave (my source)

                 Like always, I love your input. If you've got some
                 info or thoughts on improving the site, email me.
                 Lets hope this year's HFStival turns out to be as
                 cool as the festivals from years past.

[banner4]         

References:

[1] http://hfs2g.tripod.com/
[2] https://hfs99.tripod.com/~hfs99/
[3] javascript:bands()
[4] javascript:submit()
[5] mailto:HFSdavid@hotmail.com
[6] http://www.whfs.com/
[7] http://www.whfs.com/festival/1999fall/
[10] http://www.24sev.com/
[11] javascript:bands()
[12] mailto:fishbulb100w@hotmail.com?subject=Happy_Birthday!!
[13] http://www.ticketmaster.com/
[14] mailto:HFSdavid@hotmail.com
[15] http://www.whfs.com/festival/1999/festnews.htm
[16] http://www.whfs.com/festival/1999/festmain.htm
[17] http://www.rollingstone.com/sections/news/text/newsarticle.asp?afl=mnew&NewsID=7551&ArtistID=80origin=news
